site/content/gitops-quickstart/01-apply-gitops.md, before:

---
title: Setup your cluster with GitOps
weight: 10
url: gitops-quickstart/setup-gitops
---

# Setup your cluster with GitOps

Welcome to `eksctl` GitOps Quick Starts. In this guide we will show you
how to launch fully-configured Kubernetes clusters that are ready to
run production workloads in minutes: easy for you to get started running
Kubernetes on EKS and to launch standard clusters in your organisation.

At the end of this, you will have a Kubernetes cluster including control
plane, worker nodes, and all of the software needed for code deployment,
monitoring, and logging.

## Quick Start to GitOps

[GitOps][gitops] is a way to do Kubernetes application delivery. It
works by using Git as a single source of truth for Kubernetes resources
and everything else. With Git at the center of your delivery pipelines,
you and your team can make pull requests to accelerate and simplify
application deployments and operations tasks to Kubernetes.

[gitops]: https://www.weave.works/technologies/gitops/

Using GitOps Quick Starts will get you set up in next to no time. You
will benefit from a setup that is based on the experience of companies
who run workloads at scale.

## Prerequisites

To use EKS, you need to have your [AWS account][aws-account] set up.

Next you will have to have the following tools installed:

- [AWS CLI][aws-cli]: at least `1.16.156` - older versions will require
  [AWS IAM Authenticator][aws-iam-authenticator] to be installed too
- a specific version of [kubectl][aws-kubectl] which works with
  EKS

[aws-account]: https://aws.amazon.com/account/
[aws-cli]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html
[aws-iam-authenticator]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-iam-authenticator
[aws-kubectl]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/install-kubectl.html

### Getting ready for GitOps

The main point of GitOps is to keep everything (config, alerts, dashboards,
apps, literally everything) in Git and use it as a single source of truth.
To keep your cluster configuration in Git, please go ahead and create an
_empty_ repository. On Github for example, follow [these steps][github-repo].

[github-repo]: https://help.github.com/articles/create-a-repo

## Standing up your cluster

First we follow the [usual steps](/introduction/getting-started/) to stand
up a cluster on EKS. Please review the list of flags to see if you need to
tweak it for your purposes. In essence it is going to be a variation of:

```console
eksctl create cluster
```

Once it is finished, you should be able to check the cluster contents and
see some system workloads:

```console
kubectl get nodes
```

```console
NAME                                              STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-192-168-15-6.eu-central-1.compute.internal     Ready    <none>   39s   v1.13.8-eks-cd3eb0
ip-192-168-64-189.eu-central-1.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   38s   v1.13.8-eks-cd3eb0
```

## Applying GitOps

The following command will set up your cluster with the `app-dev` profile,
the first GitOps Quick Start. All of the config files you need for a
production-ready cluster will be in the git repo you have provided and
those components will be deployed to your cluster. When you make changes
in the configuration they will be reflected on your cluster.

> This is an experimental feature. To enable it, set the environment
> variable `EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true`.
>
> Experimental features are not stable and their command name and flags
> may change.

The most important ingredient using `gitops apply` is your config
repository (which includes your workload manifests, etc). You can start with
an empty repository and push that to Git, or use the one you intend to
deploy to the cluster.

What will happen during the following command is:

- `eksctl` will add the definition of your EKS cluster itself to Git,
  so you can operate it through pull requests.
- It will also add the `app-dev` GitOps Quick Start profile to it,
  which comes with a lot of very useful services and config. It is how
  we feel EKS `app-dev` clusters are best run.

Run this command from your local check-out of your config repository.
Or tweak `output-path` accordingly.

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl \
        gitops apply \
        --quickstart-profile app-dev \
        --git-url git@github.com:example/my-eks-config \
        --git-email your@email.com \
        --cluster your-cluster-name
```

Let us go through the specified arguments one by one:

- `--quickstart-profile`: this is the name of one of the profiles we
  put together, so you can easily pick and choose and will not have
  to start from scratch every time. We use `app-dev` here.
- `--git-url`: this points to a Git URL where the configuration for
  your cluster will be stored. This will contain config for the
  workloads and infrastructure later on.
- `--git-email`: the email used to commit changes to your config
  repository.
- `cluster`: the name of your cluster. Use `eksctl get cluster`
  to see all clusters in your default region.

There are more arguments and options, please refer to the
[GitOps reference of eksctl](/usage/experimental/gitops-flux/)
which details all the flags and resulting directory structure.

The command will take a while to run and it's a good idea to scan
the output. You will note a similar bit of information in the log
like this one:

```console
[ℹ]  Flux will only operate properly once it has write-access to the Git repository
[ℹ]  please configure git@github.com:YOURUSER/eks-quickstart-app-dev.git so that the following Flux SSH public key has write access to it
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC8msUDG9tEEWHKKJw1o8BpwfMkCvCepeUSMa9iTVK6Bmxeu2pA/ivBS8Qgx/Lg8Jnu4Gk2RbXYMt3KL3/lcIezLwqipGmVvLgBLvUccbBpeUpWt+SlW2LMwcMOnhF3n86VOYjaRPggoPtWfLhFIfnkvKOFLHPRYS3nqyYspFeCGUmOzQim+JAWokf4oGOOX4SNzRKjusboh93oy8fvWk8SrtSwLBWXOKu+kKXC0ecZJK7G0jW91qb40QvB+VeSAbfk8LJZcXGWWvWa3W0/woKzGNWBPZz+pGuflUjVwQG5GoOq5VVWu71gmXoXBS3bUNqlu6nDobd2LlqiXNViaszX
```

Copy the lines starting with `ssh-rsa` and add it as a deploy key, to
e.g. Github. There you can easily do this in the
`Settings > Deploy keys > Add deploy key`. Just make sure you check
`Allow write access` as well.

The next time Flux syncs from Git, it will start updating the cluster
and actively deploying.

This will set up [Flux](https://fluxcd.io) on your cluster and load GitOps
Quick Start config files into your repo. It will use templating to add your
cluster name and region to the configuration so that key cluster components
that need those values can work (e.g. `alb-ingress`).

If you run `git pull` next, you will see that Flux has commited them to your
config repository already.

In our case we are going to see these new arrivals in the cluster:

```console
kubectl get pods -n kubernetes-dashboard
```

```console
kubernetes-dashboard   dashboard-metrics-scraper-f7b5dbf7d-kwz7n   1/1     Running   0          4m
kubernetes-dashboard   kubernetes-dashboard-7447f48f55-2pl66       1/1     Running   0          4m
```

All of the cluster configuration can be easily edited in Git now.
Welcome to a fully GitOpsed world!

## Your GitOps cluster

Welcome to your fully GitOpsed cluster. By choosing the `app-dev` Quick
Start profile, you will now also have the following components running
in your cluster:

- ALB ingress controller -- to easily expose services to the World.
- [Cluster autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler) -- to [automatically add/remove nodes](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/eks-cluster-autoscaler-setup/) to/from your cluster based on its usage.
- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) (its [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager/), its [operator](https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator), its [`node-exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter), [`kube-state-metrics`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), and [`metrics-server`](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/metrics-server)) -- for powerful metrics & alerts.
- [Grafana](https://grafana.com) -- for a rich way to visualize metrics via dashboards you can create, explore, and share.
- [Kubernetes dashboard](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/) -- Kubernetes' standard dashboard.
- [Fluentd](https://www.fluentd.org/) & Amazon's [CloudWatch agent](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) -- for cluster & containers' [log collection, aggregation & analytics in CloudWatch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/Container-Insights-setup-logs.html).
- [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) --  a toy demo application.

It's easy to confirm if all of this is up and running for you. Let's
check `podinfo` and see if it's up.

```console
kubectl get service --namespace demo
```

```console
NAME      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
podinfo   ClusterIP   10.100.255.220   <none>        9898/TCP   2m
```

Now let's port-forward the service, so we can easily access it:

```console
kubectl port-forward -n demo svc/podinfo 9898:9898
```

If you open `localhost:9898` in your browser, you will see

![podinfo up and running](../images/podinfo-screenshot.png)

Congratulations to your GitOpsed cluster on EKS!

## Advanced setups

`eksctl gitops apply` can largely be decomposed into

1. `eksctl install flux`
1. `eksctl generate profile`

So for more complex use cases, you will want to run these steps
separately and on your own and adjust flags and options as necessary. The
first command installs Flux and links it to a Git repo that you provide.
The second generates the manifest files from the GitOps Quick Start profile
locally, so that you can edit them before pushing to your Git repo.

### Configuring Flux

Here we will install [Flux](https://fluxcd.io), the Kubernetes GitOps
operator in your cluster. It will take care of deployments for you.

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux \
    --git-url <git-url> \
    --git-email <email-of-committer> \
    --name <cluster-name>
```

Additional options to the command are explained in our docs on
[`install flux`](/usage/experimental/gitops-flux/).

Now we run e.g.:

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux \
    --git-url git@github.com:YOURUSER/flux-get-started \
    --git-email your@email.org \
    --name wonderful-wardrobe-1565767990
```

After about a minute your cluster will have `flux` running, which will
monitor your git repository once you added an SSH key to e.g. Github deploy keys.
The [Flux Helm Operator](https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-operator) and Tiller will
be deployed in your cluster too.

This key can be found at the end of the output of the command, this
might for example be:

```console
[...]
[ℹ]  Flux will only operate properly once it has write-access to the Git repository
[ℹ]  please configure git@github.com:YOURUSER/flux-get-started so that the following Flux SSH public key has write access to it
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQCt8no0/F3+kD1YukH6sVIv1ONcy9+01G2/AQe1CQA+uRHaioep41U3ghROU7CoM1yTjG+eLYgu26UMvkXVbOmEm+1697adh4qz/yCF0E7JtCIIXGn/1XrLb6OxgtlGKdJ4fTUdxtQSyTvWqjxQhC4ute9hnHWU8oiSrNaq5D20P5x8sgPf4V0A5YWD5S4YliJcIupTzrD7zjhh6TyP5fqhPLHPBZFHStHq0DSD+Gi6vXZz1s9UmuAnxP8pkIlrW22xJyFbsmcjJuks5FvmLo8uJMeWTx5t+3WKWp8ZKrbDJFUWQ8aVMByHYq1c3doevM28CHwz/
```

Copy the lines starting with `ssh-rsa` and add it as a deploy key, to
e.g. Github. There you can easily do this in the
`Settings > Deploy keys > Add deploy key`. Just make sure you check
`Allow write access` as well.

The next time Flux syncs from Git, it will start updating the cluster
and actively deploying. If you use the [`flux-get-started`
repo](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux-get-started) from above, here's
what you will see in your cluster:

```console
kubectl get pods -n demo
```

```console
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
podinfo-5f4bd464b4-4vf7k   1/1     Running   0          58m
podinfo-5f4bd464b4-hkgzt   1/1     Running   0          58m
```

Remember that you can further tweak the installation of Flux as
discussed in our [`install flux` docs](/usage/experimental/gitops-flux/).

### Handcrafting your configuration

In this second step we will use `eksctl generate profile`, so you can
easily handcraft your cluster configuration and maintain it in Git, just
like you would for the workloads you are running.

During the previous call (`eksctl install flux`), we instructed Flux
to watch a config repository and deploy changes to the cluster. This
config repository is where the workloads are defined. Now we will add
the config of the infrastructure tooling as well.

`eksctl` has the ability to use a base config for for the
infrastructure tooling. So if your organisation has already experience
in setting up clusters and use the same defaults, it makes sense to use
those as a base config. You could be entirely starting from scratch here
too. What we will do in this part of the tutorial is using
`weaveworks/eks-quickstart-app-dev`, which is the `app-dev` GitOps Quick
Start profile.

Now please run:

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl generate profile \
        --name wonderful-wardrobe-1565767990 \
        --git-url git@github.com:weaveworks/eks-quickstart-app-dev.git \
        --profile-path ~/dev/flux-get-started/cluster-config
```

Let's break this down here. `eksctl generate profile` at the very
least wants:

- `--name`: the name of the cluster - check `eksctl get cluster`
  to see what the name of yours is
- `--git-url`: the Git URL of the base config of your cluster
- `--profile-path`: a local path: this is an empty new directory
  (here `cluster-config`) you create in your local checkout of
  the config repository, which we used in the previous command

The base config can be something you and your organisation
tailored to your needs, but can be something like our [app-dev
Quick Start profile][eks-quickstart-app-dev] as well. It is meant
to be a starting point for clusters you can iterate over.

[eks-quickstart-app-dev]: https://github.com/weaveworks/eks-quickstart-app-dev

So after all this preface, what happens when we run the command?
`eksctl` will check out the base config (here we use a copy of the
GitOps example config) in an empty sub-directory (`cluster-config`)
of our local checkout of `flux-get-started`.

All that is left now to get our cluster components managed by Flux
is to commit them to our config repository:

```console
cd ~/dev/flux-get-started/cluster-config
git add .
git commit -m "add cluster config"
git push
```

Flux will pick this up in its next sync and make the changes to your
cluster.

In our case we are going to see these new arrivals in the cluster:

```console
kubectl get pods -n kubernetes-dashboard
```

```console
kubernetes-dashboard   dashboard-metrics-scraper-f7b5dbf7d-kwz7n   1/1     Running   0          4m
kubernetes-dashboard   kubernetes-dashboard-7447f48f55-2pl66       1/1     Running   0          4m
```

All of the cluster configuration can be easily edited in Git now.
Welcome to a fully GitOpsed world!

## Conclusion

We look forward to hearing your thoughts and feedback. Please [get
in touch](/community/get-in-touch/) and let us know how things
worked out for you.

Commit message:

Add documentation for quickstart profile creators

site/content/gitops-quickstart/01-apply-gitops.md, after:

---
title: Setup your cluster with GitOps
weight: 10
url: gitops-quickstart/setup-gitops
---

# Setup your cluster with GitOps

Welcome to `eksctl` GitOps Quick Starts. In this guide we will show you
how to launch fully-configured Kubernetes clusters that are ready to
run production workloads in minutes: easy for you to get started running
Kubernetes on EKS and to launch standard clusters in your organisation.

At the end of this, you will have a Kubernetes cluster including control
plane, worker nodes, and all of the software needed for code deployment,
monitoring, and logging.

## Quick Start to GitOps

[GitOps][gitops] is a way to do Kubernetes application delivery. It
works by using Git as a single source of truth for Kubernetes resources
and everything else. With Git at the center of your delivery pipelines,
you and your team can make pull requests to accelerate and simplify
application deployments and operations tasks to Kubernetes.

[gitops]: https://www.weave.works/technologies/gitops/

Using GitOps Quick Starts will get you set up in next to no time. You
will benefit from a setup that is based on the experience of companies
who run workloads at scale.

## Prerequisites

To use EKS, you need to have your [AWS account][aws-account] set up.

Next you will have to have the following tools installed:

- [AWS CLI][aws-cli]: at least `1.16.156` - older versions will require
  [AWS IAM Authenticator][aws-iam-authenticator] to be installed too
- a specific version of [kubectl][aws-kubectl] which works with
  EKS

[aws-account]: https://aws.amazon.com/account/
[aws-cli]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html
[aws-iam-authenticator]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-iam-authenticator
[aws-kubectl]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/install-kubectl.html

### Getting ready for GitOps

The main point of GitOps is to keep everything (config, alerts, dashboards,
apps, literally everything) in Git and use it as a single source of truth.
To keep your cluster configuration in Git, please go ahead and create an
_empty_ repository. On Github for example, follow [these steps][github-repo].

[github-repo]: https://help.github.com/articles/create-a-repo

## Standing up your cluster

First we follow the [usual steps](/introduction/getting-started/) to stand
up a cluster on EKS. Please review the list of flags to see if you need to
tweak it for your purposes. In essence it is going to be a variation of:

```console
eksctl create cluster
```

Once it is finished, you should be able to check the cluster contents and
see some system workloads:

```console
kubectl get nodes
```

```console
NAME                                              STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-192-168-15-6.eu-central-1.compute.internal     Ready    <none>   39s   v1.13.8-eks-cd3eb0
ip-192-168-64-189.eu-central-1.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   38s   v1.13.8-eks-cd3eb0
```

## Applying GitOps

The following command will set up your cluster with the `app-dev` profile,
the first GitOps Quick Start. All of the config files you need for a
production-ready cluster will be in the git repo you have provided and
those components will be deployed to your cluster. When you make changes
in the configuration they will be reflected on your cluster.

> This is an experimental feature. To enable it, set the environment
> variable `EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true`.
>
> Experimental features are not stable and their command name and flags
> may change.

The most important ingredient using `gitops apply` is your config
repository (which includes your workload manifests, etc). You can start with
an empty repository and push that to Git, or use the one you intend to
deploy to the cluster.

What will happen during the following command is:

- `eksctl` will add the definition of your EKS cluster itself to Git,
  so you can operate it through pull requests.
- It will also add the `app-dev` GitOps Quick Start profile to it,
  which comes with a lot of very useful services and config. It is how
  we feel EKS `app-dev` clusters are best run.

Run this command from your local check-out of your config repository.
Or tweak `output-path` accordingly.

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl \
        gitops apply \
        --quickstart-profile app-dev \
        --git-url git@github.com:example/my-eks-config \
        --git-email your@email.com \
        --cluster your-cluster-name
```

Let us go through the specified arguments one by one:

- `--quickstart-profile`: this is the name of one of the profiles we
  put together, so you can easily pick and choose and will not have
  to start from scratch every time. We use `app-dev` here.
- `--git-url`: this points to a Git URL where the configuration for
  your cluster will be stored. This will contain config for the
  workloads and infrastructure later on.
- `--git-email`: the email used to commit changes to your config
  repository.
- `cluster`: the name of your cluster. Use `eksctl get cluster`
  to see all clusters in your default region.

There are more arguments and options, please refer to the
[GitOps reference of eksctl](/usage/experimental/gitops-flux/)
which details all the flags and resulting directory structure.

The command will take a while to run and it's a good idea to scan
the output. You will note a similar bit of information in the log
like this one:

```console
[ℹ]  Flux will only operate properly once it has write-access to the Git repository
[ℹ]  please configure git@github.com:YOURUSER/eks-quickstart-app-dev.git so that the following Flux SSH public key has write access to it
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC8msUDG9tEEWHKKJw1o8BpwfMkCvCepeUSMa9iTVK6Bmxeu2pA/ivBS8Qgx/Lg8Jnu4Gk2RbXYMt3KL3/lcIezLwqipGmVvLgBLvUccbBpeUpWt+SlW2LMwcMOnhF3n86VOYjaRPggoPtWfLhFIfnkvKOFLHPRYS3nqyYspFeCGUmOzQim+JAWokf4oGOOX4SNzRKjusboh93oy8fvWk8SrtSwLBWXOKu+kKXC0ecZJK7G0jW91qb40QvB+VeSAbfk8LJZcXGWWvWa3W0/woKzGNWBPZz+pGuflUjVwQG5GoOq5VVWu71gmXoXBS3bUNqlu6nDobd2LlqiXNViaszX
```

Copy the lines starting with `ssh-rsa` and add it as a deploy key, to
e.g. Github. There you can easily do this in the
`Settings > Deploy keys > Add deploy key`. Just make sure you check
`Allow write access` as well.

The next time Flux syncs from Git, it will start updating the cluster
and actively deploying.

This will set up [Flux](https://fluxcd.io) on your cluster and load GitOps
Quick Start config files into your repo. It will use templating to add your
cluster name and region to the configuration so that key cluster components
that need those values can work (e.g. `alb-ingress`).

If you run `git pull` next, you will see that Flux has commited them to your
config repository already.

In our case we are going to see these new arrivals in the cluster:

```console
kubectl get pods -n kubernetes-dashboard
```

```console
kubernetes-dashboard   dashboard-metrics-scraper-f7b5dbf7d-kwz7n   1/1     Running   0          4m
kubernetes-dashboard   kubernetes-dashboard-7447f48f55-2pl66       1/1     Running   0          4m
```

All of the cluster configuration can be easily edited in Git now.
Welcome to a fully GitOpsed world!

## Your GitOps cluster

Welcome to your fully GitOpsed cluster. By choosing the `app-dev` Quick
Start profile, you will now also have the following components running
in your cluster:

- ALB ingress controller -- to easily expose services to the World.
- [Cluster autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler) -- to [automatically add/remove nodes](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/eks-cluster-autoscaler-setup/) to/from your cluster based on its usage.
- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) (its [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager/), its [operator](https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator), its [`node-exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter), [`kube-state-metrics`](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), and [`metrics-server`](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/metrics-server)) -- for powerful metrics & alerts.
- [Grafana](https://grafana.com) -- for a rich way to visualize metrics via dashboards you can create, explore, and share.
- [Kubernetes dashboard](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/) -- Kubernetes' standard dashboard.
- [Fluentd](https://www.fluentd.org/) & Amazon's [CloudWatch agent](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) -- for cluster & containers' [log collection, aggregation & analytics in CloudWatch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/Container-Insights-setup-logs.html).
- [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) --  a toy demo application.

It's easy to confirm if all of this is up and running for you. Let's
check `podinfo` and see if it's up.

```console
kubectl get service --namespace demo
```

```console
NAME      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
podinfo   ClusterIP   10.100.255.220   <none>        9898/TCP   2m
```

Now let's port-forward the service, so we can easily access it:

```console
kubectl port-forward -n demo svc/podinfo 9898:9898
```

If you open `localhost:9898` in your browser, you will see

![podinfo up and running](../images/podinfo-screenshot.png)

Congratulations to your GitOpsed cluster on EKS!

## Advanced setups

`eksctl gitops apply` can largely be decomposed into

1. `eksctl install flux`
1. `eksctl generate profile`

So for more complex use cases, you will want to run these steps
separately and on your own and adjust flags and options as necessary. The
first command installs Flux and links it to a Git repo that you provide.
The second generates the manifest files from the GitOps Quick Start profile
locally, so that you can edit them before pushing to your Git repo.

### Configuring Flux

Here we will install [Flux](https://fluxcd.io), the Kubernetes GitOps
operator in your cluster. It will take care of deployments for you.

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux \
    --git-url <git-url> \
    --git-email <email-of-committer> \
    --name <cluster-name>
```

Additional options to the command are explained in our docs on
[`install flux`](/usage/experimental/gitops-flux/).

Now we run e.g.:

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux \
    --git-url git@github.com:YOURUSER/flux-get-started \
    --git-email your@email.org \
    --name wonderful-wardrobe-1565767990
```

After about a minute your cluster will have `flux` running, which will
monitor your git repository once you added an SSH key to e.g. Github deploy keys.
The [Flux Helm Operator](https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-operator) and Tiller will
be deployed in your cluster too.

This key can be found at the end of the output of the command, this
might for example be:

```console
[...]
[ℹ]  Flux will only operate properly once it has write-access to the Git repository
[ℹ]  please configure git@github.com:YOURUSER/flux-get-started so that the following Flux SSH public key has write access to it
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQCt8no0/F3+kD1YukH6sVIv1ONcy9+01G2/AQe1CQA+uRHaioep41U3ghROU7CoM1yTjG+eLYgu26UMvkXVbOmEm+1697adh4qz/yCF0E7JtCIIXGn/1XrLb6OxgtlGKdJ4fTUdxtQSyTvWqjxQhC4ute9hnHWU8oiSrNaq5D20P5x8sgPf4V0A5YWD5S4YliJcIupTzrD7zjhh6TyP5fqhPLHPBZFHStHq0DSD+Gi6vXZz1s9UmuAnxP8pkIlrW22xJyFbsmcjJuks5FvmLo8uJMeWTx5t+3WKWp8ZKrbDJFUWQ8aVMByHYq1c3doevM28CHwz/
```

Copy the lines starting with `ssh-rsa` and add it as a deploy key, to
e.g. Github. There you can easily do this in the
`Settings > Deploy keys > Add deploy key`. Just make sure you check
`Allow write access` as well.

The next time Flux syncs from Git, it will start updating the cluster
and actively deploying. If you use the [`flux-get-started`
repo](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux-get-started) from above, here's
what you will see in your cluster:

```console
kubectl get pods -n demo
```

```console
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
podinfo-5f4bd464b4-4vf7k   1/1     Running   0          58m
podinfo-5f4bd464b4-hkgzt   1/1     Running   0          58m
```

Remember that you can further tweak the installation of Flux as
discussed in our [`install flux` docs](/usage/experimental/gitops-flux/).

### Handcrafting your configuration

In this second step we will use `eksctl generate profile`, so you can
easily handcraft your cluster configuration and maintain it in Git, just
like you would for the workloads you are running.

During the previous call (`eksctl install flux`), we instructed Flux
to watch a config repository and deploy changes to the cluster. This
config repository is where the workloads are defined. Now we will add
the config of the infrastructure tooling as well.

`eksctl` has the ability to use a base config for for the
infrastructure tooling. So if your organisation has already experience
in setting up clusters and use the same defaults, it makes sense to use
those as a base config. You could be entirely starting from scratch here
too. What we will do in this part of the tutorial is using
`weaveworks/eks-quickstart-app-dev`, which is the `app-dev` GitOps Quick
Start profile. To create your own base config repository check out
[the documentation](usage/experimental/gitops-flux/#creating-your-own-quick-start-profile).

Now please run:

```console
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl generate profile \
        --name wonderful-wardrobe-1565767990 \
        --git-url git@github.com:weaveworks/eks-quickstart-app-dev.git \
        --profile-path ~/dev/flux-get-started/cluster-config
```

Let's break this down here. `eksctl generate profile` at the very
least wants:

- `--name`: the name of the cluster - check `eksctl get cluster`
  to see what the name of yours is
- `--git-url`: the Git URL of the base config of your cluster
- `--profile-path`: a local path: this is an empty new directory
  (here `cluster-config`) you create in your local checkout of
  the config repository, which we used in the previous command

The base config can be something you and your organisation
tailored to your needs, but can be something like our [app-dev
Quick Start profile][eks-quickstart-app-dev] as well. It is meant
to be a starting point for clusters you can iterate over.

[eks-quickstart-app-dev]: https://github.com/weaveworks/eks-quickstart-app-dev

So after all this preface, what happens when we run the command?
`eksctl` will check out the base config (here we use a copy of the
GitOps example config) in an empty sub-directory (`cluster-config`)
of our local checkout of `flux-get-started`.

All that is left now to get our cluster components managed by Flux
is to commit them to our config repository:

```console
cd ~/dev/flux-get-started/cluster-config
git add .
git commit -m "add cluster config"
git push
```

Flux will pick this up in its next sync and make the changes to your
cluster.

In our case we are going to see these new arrivals in the cluster:

```console
kubectl get pods -n kubernetes-dashboard
```

```console
kubernetes-dashboard   dashboard-metrics-scraper-f7b5dbf7d-kwz7n   1/1     Running   0          4m
kubernetes-dashboard   kubernetes-dashboard-7447f48f55-2pl66       1/1     Running   0          4m
```

All of the cluster configuration can be easily edited in Git now.
Welcome to a fully GitOpsed world!

## Conclusion

We look forward to hearing your thoughts and feedback. Please [get
in touch](/community/get-in-touch/) and let us know how things
worked out for you.
