site/content/usage/08-spot-instances.md, before:

---
title: "Spot instances"
weight: 80
url: usage/spot-instances
---

## Spot instances

`eksctl` has support for spot instances through the MixedInstancesPolicy for Auto Scaling Groups.

Here is an example of a nodegroup that uses 50% spot instances and 50% on demand instances:

```yaml
nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-1
    minSize: 2
    maxSize: 5
    instancesDistribution:
      maxPrice: 0.017
      instanceTypes: ["t3.small", "t3.medium"] # At least two instance types should be specified
      onDemandBaseCapacity: 0
      onDemandPercentageAboveBaseCapacity: 50
      spotInstancePools: 2
```

Note that the `nodeGroups.X.instanceType` field shouldn't be set when using the `instancesDistribution` field.

This example uses GPU instances:

```yaml
nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-gpu
    instanceType: mixed
    desiredCapacity: 1
    instancesDistribution:
      instanceTypes:
        - p2.xlarge
        - p2.8xlarge
        - p2.16xlarge
      maxPrice: 0.50
```

Here is a minimal example:

```yaml
nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-1
    instancesDistribution:
      instanceTypes: ["t3.small", "t3.medium"] # At least two instance types should be specified
```

### Parameters in instancesDistribution

|                                     | type        | required | default value   |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------- | -------- | --------------- |
| instanceTypes                       | []string    | required | -               |
| maxPrice                            | float       | optional | on demand price |
| onDemandBaseCapacity                | int         | optional | 0               |
| onDemandPercentageAboveBaseCapacity | int [1-100] | optional | 100             |
| spotInstancePools                   | int [1-20]  | optional | 2               |

Commit message:

adding extra doc to site/content spot section

site/content/usage/08-spot-instances.md, after:

---
title: "Spot instances"
weight: 80
url: usage/spot-instances
---

## Spot instances

`eksctl` has support for spot instances through the MixedInstancesPolicy for Auto Scaling Groups.

Here is an example of a nodegroup that uses 50% spot instances and 50% on demand instances:

```yaml
nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-1
    minSize: 2
    maxSize: 5
    instancesDistribution:
      maxPrice: 0.017
      instanceTypes: ["t3.small", "t3.medium"] # At least two instance types should be specified
      onDemandBaseCapacity: 0
      onDemandPercentageAboveBaseCapacity: 50
      spotInstancePools: 2
```

Note that the `nodeGroups.X.instanceType` field shouldn't be set when using the `instancesDistribution` field.

This example uses GPU instances:

```yaml
nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-gpu
    instanceType: mixed
    desiredCapacity: 1
    instancesDistribution:
      instanceTypes:
        - p2.xlarge
        - p2.8xlarge
        - p2.16xlarge
      maxPrice: 0.50
```

Here is a minimal example:

```yaml
nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-1
    instancesDistribution:
      instanceTypes: ["t3.small", "t3.medium"] # At least two instance types should be specified
```

`labelsOnSpot` and `taintsOnSpot` parameters can be used to append extra labels and taints or
to override the key for the label or tain clashes with the ones already set when using the
`labels` and `taints` parameters.

In the example below, On-Demand instances will have a label
named "lifecycle" set to "OnDemand", while Spot instances will override the "lifecycle" and
instead use "Ec2Spot". Spot instances will also have a taint "spotInstance=true:PreferNoSchedule"

```yaml
nodeGroups:
  - name: mixed-instance-group-1
    minSize: 1
    maxSize: 10
    labels:
      lifecycle: OnDemand
    labelsOnSpot:
      lifecycle: Ec2Spot
    taintsOnSpot:
      spotInstance: "true:PreferNoSchedule"
    instancesDistribution:
      instanceTypes: ["t3.small", "t2.small"] # At least two instance types should be specified
      onDemandBaseCapacity: 0
      onDemandPercentageAboveBaseCapacity: 50
      spotInstancePools: 2
```


### Parameters in instancesDistribution

|                                     | type        | required | default value   |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------- | -------- | --------------- |
| instanceTypes                       | []string    | required | -               |
| maxPrice                            | float       | optional | on demand price |
| onDemandBaseCapacity                | int         | optional | 0               |
| onDemandPercentageAboveBaseCapacity | int [1-100] | optional | 100             |
| spotInstancePools                   | int [1-20]  | optional | 2               |
