site/content/usage/11-customizing-the-kubelet.md, before:

---
title: "Customizing kubelet configuration"
weight: 110
url: usage/customizing-the-kubelet
---

## Customizing kubelet configuration

System resources can be reserved through the configuration of the kubelet. This is recommended, because in the case 
of resource starvation the kubelet might not be able to evict pods and eventually make the node become `NotReady`. To
 do this, config files can include the `kubeletExtraConfig` field which accepts a free form yaml that will be embedded 
 into the `kubelet.yaml`.

 
Some fields in the `kubelet.yaml` are set by eksctl and therefore are not overwritable, such as the `address`, 
`clusterDomain`, `authentication`, `authorization`, or `serverTLSBootstrap`.

The following example config file creates a nodegroup that reserves `300m` vCPU, `300Mi` of memory and `1Gi` of 
ephemeral-storage for the kubelet; `300m` vCPU, `300Mi` of memory and `1Gi`of ephemeral storage for OS system 
daemons; and kicks in eviction of pods when there is less than `200Mi` of memory available or less than  10% of the 
root filesystem.

```yaml
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig

metadata:
  name: dev-cluster-1
  region: eu-north-1

nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-1
    instanceType: m5a.xlarge
    desiredCapacity: 1
    kubeletExtraConfig:
        kubeReserved:
            cpu: "300m"
            memory: "300Mi"
            ephemeral-storage: "1Gi"
        kubeReservedCgroup: "/kube-reserved"
        systemReserved:
            cpu: "300m"
            memory: "300Mi"
            ephemeral-storage: "1Gi"
        evictionHard:
            memory.available:  "200Mi"
            nodefs.available: "10%"
        featureGates:
            DynamicKubeletConfig: true
            RotateKubeletServerCertificate: true # has to be enabled, otherwise it will be disabled
```

In this example, given instances of type `m5a.xlarge` which have 4 vCPUs and 16GiB of memory, the `Allocatable` amount
of CPUs would be 3.4 and 15.4 GiB of memory. In addition, the `DynamicKubeletConfig` feature gate is also enabled. It is
important to know that the values specified in the config file for the the fields in `kubeletExtraconfig` will 
completely overwrite the default values specified by eksctl.

>**IMPORTANT**: by default `eksctl` sets  `featureGates.RotateKubeletServerCertificate=true`, but when custom 
`featureGates` are provided, it will be unset. You should always include 
`featureGates.RotateKubeletServerCertificate=true`, unless you have to disable it.

Commit message:

Document reserved default values for kubelet configs

site/content/usage/11-customizing-the-kubelet.md, after:

---
title: "Customizing kubelet configuration"
weight: 110
url: usage/customizing-the-kubelet
---

## Customizing kubelet configuration

System resources can be reserved through the configuration of the kubelet. This is recommended, because in the case 
of resource starvation the kubelet might not be able to evict pods and eventually make the node become `NotReady`. To
 do this, config files can include the `kubeletExtraConfig` field which accepts a free form yaml that will be embedded 
 into the `kubelet.yaml`.

 
Some fields in the `kubelet.yaml` are set by eksctl and therefore are not overwritable, such as the `address`, 
`clusterDomain`, `authentication`, `authorization`, or `serverTLSBootstrap`.

The following example config file creates a nodegroup that reserves `300m` vCPU, `300Mi` of memory and `1Gi` of 
ephemeral-storage for the kubelet; `300m` vCPU, `300Mi` of memory and `1Gi`of ephemeral storage for OS system 
daemons; and kicks in eviction of pods when there is less than `200Mi` of memory available or less than  10% of the 
root filesystem.

```yaml
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig

metadata:
  name: dev-cluster-1
  region: eu-north-1

nodeGroups:
  - name: ng-1
    instanceType: m5a.xlarge
    desiredCapacity: 1
    kubeletExtraConfig:
        kubeReserved:
            cpu: "300m"
            memory: "300Mi"
            ephemeral-storage: "1Gi"
        kubeReservedCgroup: "/kube-reserved"
        systemReserved:
            cpu: "300m"
            memory: "300Mi"
            ephemeral-storage: "1Gi"
        evictionHard:
            memory.available:  "200Mi"
            nodefs.available: "10%"
        featureGates:
            DynamicKubeletConfig: true
            RotateKubeletServerCertificate: true # has to be enabled, otherwise it will be disabled
```

In this example, given instances of type `m5a.xlarge` which have 4 vCPUs and 16GiB of memory, the `Allocatable` amount
of CPUs would be 3.4 and 15.4 GiB of memory. In addition, the `DynamicKubeletConfig` feature gate is also enabled. It is
important to know that the values specified in the config file for the the fields in `kubeletExtraconfig` will 
completely overwrite the default values specified by eksctl. However, omitting one or more `kubeReserved` parameters
will cause the missing parameters to be defaulted to sane values based on the aws instance type being used.

>**IMPORTANT**: by default `eksctl` sets  `featureGates.RotateKubeletServerCertificate=true`, but when custom 
`featureGates` are provided, it will be unset. You should always include 
`featureGates.RotateKubeletServerCertificate=true`, unless you have to disable it.
